All right, guys.
So in this video, we're going to start to work on the rest of the index page.
So we want this this process, my creative process, and we want these font awesome icons.
We're going to add some background to it, this transition effect, and get these numbers kind of inside
of the the display of the icon.
All right.
And then we'll also do the footer as well with these social media icons with the hover effect.
So we're going to start with the HTML.
So let's jump into VS code and let's go to our index.html, go right below section B, which is the
stats that we did in the last video.
And let's say Section C and this is the process section.
So I'm going to give this an ID of home dash C and let's give it a class of text center and also a class
of PY two.
So do some padding on the top and bottom.
We want our container.
So you can see there's a lot of repetitiveness in these sections.
So we'll have an each two.
Let's give it a class of section dash title, which I believe we still have to add in the CSS.
And we're just going to see my creative process and let's put let's do a bottom line.
Remember, we have that bottom line class, so we'll do bottom dash line.
And underneath that we're going to have a class, a paragraph with the class of lead and we're going
to say, actually, know what I'm going to do is just going to paste this in and you guys can just copy
it.
So let's go right here.
So all of my UI, UX and design projects are based off of a practice formula to get the result I am
looking for.
And of course, you can put whatever you'd like in here.
I just wanted to make it a little more realistic.
We are going to have some some content, but I wanted to put some real text in here as well.
So underneath this paragraph, let's create a class called process.
Now, this process is going to be the four divs with the icons and the text and so on.
So this right here.
So the process class will surround these and then we'll have the divs inside and we'll use the grid
to align them.
So let's go back and in process, let's do div and we're going to have our icons.
So we'll say I with the class of face and the icon we're going to use as F a dash file, dash alt.
And we want this to be four times its size.
So we're going to say F or four times the regular default size.
So for X and we're also going to add in here process dash icon, which is a custom class I'm going to
add and then I want to do the m y.
Remember, we did the margin classes for the top and bottom.
We're going to do my two now inside here.
Remember, we want to have the numbers.
One, two, three, four inside the icon.
So we're going to put a div inside here and let's give this a class of process dash step and I'm going
to put a number one now underneath that, let's see.
And what I'm going to do here is I'm actually going to float it because of the way that it's it's positioned.
So I'm going to just put a clear class underneath this.
So we're going to put a clear class.
And then underneath that, we're going to have an H three and let's say discuss the project.
And then we'll put a paragraph and let's do lorem think I did lorem 15.
It looks about right.
So that's going to be the first one, first div.
So I'm going to actually copy this whole div and let's put it in two, three, four times, just going
to save it to format it with prettier.
So the first one is all set, which is this one.
Now the second one is going to have an icon of F8 desktop.
We want to keep these classes.
We just want to change this to two for the heading.
Let's say we'll do brainstorming and concept and I'll just keep the same text.
And then for this third one here, the icon is going to be f a dash object, dash UN group.
And then we want to change the step to three and then the title, let's change that to UI Dash or slash
UX planning.
And then for the last one here, we're going to make this thumbs up.
So f a thumbs dash up.
Uh.
Let's see.
We want this to be step four.
And the title.
Let's say interaction.
Okay.
So we'll save that.
Let's see what it looks like without the CSIS.
So it just looks like this.
And notice I do have the same icons here and here.
So if you want to change those out, that's fine.
I just didn't want to go crazy looking for icons because the content is really not that important.
You can always switch out the content.
It's the the markup and the CSS that we're really paying attention to.
So let's add some of those utility classes.
So we have let's see, we want our clear class.
We want the process that's not really a that's not a utility class.
But we did have lead, which I think we already added.
Let's see.
Do we add lead?
Yes, we did.
There was bottom line.
We didn't add that yet.
So let's go down here.
This is Utilities six and let's do bottom line.
All right.
So for bottom line, we're just going to do a let's do a height.
So it's just going to be just a line with the main color.
So let's do a height of two pixels, let's do a width of three REM, let's do a background of the main
color and let's make this display block and then let's add a little margin.
So I'm going to do margin, let's do zero auto one auto on the left and right, we'll do one REM and
then auto.
So let's save that.
And you can see right here, this is what it looks like.
And if you want to make it thicker, if you want to increase the width, that's that's fine, too.
We just make sure.
So one thing that another thing we have to add is the title.
See how this one is bigger.
That's because we didn't add the section title.
I believe that's what we named it.
So we have class section title.
So let's put that right here.
We'll say section, dash title.
And it's a utility class because we use it over and over in different parts of the site.
So I'm going to set the font size to be a little bigger.
Let's do two REM and let's set the let's make it display block.
Let's make the padding bottom.
We'll say 0.5 REM and let's align it to the center.
Which it already is, but it doesn't hurt.
Just to add that, just to make sure.
So I'm going to say font weight.
Let's do a font weight of 100 and let's make it up.
Make sure it's uppercase.
So text transform uppercase.
So let's take a look at it now.
And that looks better.
You can see we have the title and the bottom line.
All right.
So let's start to work on the the whole process area.
So we're going to go back to our main source.
And let's see, we have remember, we have our home we have home dash A, home dash B.
Now we want to work on a home dash C, so we want to go to the end of of the dash B, which is right
here and let's say home section C and we'll do ampersand dash C and I want to work on the process div.
So we're going to display this as a grid and let's do our grid template columns and I'm going to use
repeat, let's do repeat four times one fraction.
So we have four, four, even columns.
We'll set a grid gap.
I'm going to go a little larger.
I'm going to do 1.5 REM for the grid gap and just text a line everything to the center.
So now we want to take each process step.
So if we look at our HTML, we have right where is it?
Right here, the process step class which surrounds the number which is this right here, this circle
part.
So we're going to work on that.
Now since the class is called process dash step, we can simply go within process and we can just do
a dash step.
All right.
Now, I'm going to position it absolute because I want to move it inward.
And then we're going to set the top to zero and the right to zero.
Okay.
And then let's do a font size.
I'm actually going to set this to a pixel.
I'm going to do 28 pixels.
And then let's set the background.
So background is going to be the main color.
All right, let me just.
Check that real quick.
Yeah.
So it's going to be main color, but when we hover over it, it's going to transition into the dark
color.
So let's see.
Whoops, this should be background.
Either background color or just background.
And then we're going to set the board.
We want it to be circle a circle behind it.
So we're going to set border radius to 50% and let's set a height of 15 pixels and a width of 15 pixels.
Okay.
And then we're going to set a line height of the same.
So 15 pixels.
And for padding.
I'll do one REM and we want it to transition.
So we'll add transition all and I'm going to do 1/2.
So that's our step.
Now we want to work on the icon.
Now, remember, we gave it a custom class of process dash icons.
So within this process right here, we'll go go after the step and we'll just do.
Dash icon like that.
And again if you want to comment this like we could say this is the process dash icon.
Process dash step.
So for the icon, what I'm going to do is set a border radius because again, we want it to be a circle.
So we'll do 50%.
And let's set the background to the dark color variable.
Let's set the color to we'll do white and then the padding to to REM.
And then we want this to be excuse me, much bigger than the the step.
So I'm going to set it to 70 pixels and also set the height to 70.
Okay.
And then let's set the line height to the same thing, line height to 70 pixels, and then let's make
sure it's text aligned center.
And we want to position this relative because the step is inside.
The icon probably should have put the icon styling first, but it doesn't really matter.
And then I'm going to add transition for this, not transform.
We want transition and I'm going to do all 1/2.
Okay?
Now let's just save that and see what we get.
So that's what we get.
And when it loads, it does it did the transition just because it was the first load with live server,
but you can see that that looks pretty good.
However, we do want that hover effect and we want them to transition.
All right.
So actually, you know what, guys?
I'm not exactly sure why I had the clear class in there.
So we're going to get rid of that.
There is no float.
I don't I actually don't know why I did that.
So we're just going to clear the oops.
I'm going to clear these out.
Sorry about that.
So let's see.
We get those.
This one.
And this one.
Okay.
So now, like I said, we're going to work on the hover.
So let's go back to main success and we're going to do the hover on the icon.
So you want to make sure you're within the icon and we want to add ampersand, colon, hover, and we
want to set the background.
So remember, we're dealing with the icon, so we want to set the background to the main color by default.
It's the dark color and then we want to set the width.
I'm going to make it grow a little bit.
So we're going to do 90 pixels, height, 90 pixels and also the line height, 90 pixels.
Now the process step.
I also want to change I want to change the color of that which by default is the main color.
I want to reverse it to the dark color.
So when we hover over the icon, we also want the class of process step.
To change the background to the dark color.
So let's try it.
We'll save it.
And let's go down here and hover over.
And you can see the icon.
A process icon grows from 70 to 90, changes the background color, and then the absolute positioned
process step class changes the color as well.
And they both transition nicely over 1/2.
All right.
So that's it for that part.
Now, we want to we want to deal with the footer, which shouldn't be too bad.
So let's go back into index.html and let's go down below the last section here and create our footer.
So we'll put let's do a footer tag and let's give it an ID of main dash footer.
And we're going to have a class in here called Footer Dash Content.
And I'm also I also want to container, so I'm just going to add that here as well.
And then in here we'll put a paragraph, we'll say copyright, ampersand, copy, semicolon, which
will give us the little copyright symbol.
2019, all rights reserved.
And then under that, I want the social icons, which I'm going to put in a class called social and
let's do some font awesome icons.
So a F, a B is what we want to use for the social media icons.
And I'm going to do Twitter.
So f a dash Twitter.
Let's copy this down four times and we want Facebook.
Let's do Instagram
and let's do LinkedIn.
All right.
So if we take a look at that without any CSS, it should look like this.
So now let's go back into main access and let's deal with the footer.
So we want to be let's see, we want to be outside of everything.
So just go down to the bottom here
and let's do ID main dash footer and the footer itself will give a background.
Let's do a dark color color, we'll say white and let's do a height of we'll do five rem.
Now the footer content, I'm going to style which is inside the main footer so we can put it in here.
So footer dash content.
And I'm going to use Flex here.
So we'll say display flex and let's do justify content space between.
So remember the footer has to we gave this footer content a class I mean I'm sorry, a display of flex
and we have the paragraph and then we have this div as flex items and we want space between because
we want them on each side.
So we want to put all the remaining space in between.
Okay.
Next thing, I'm going to set the height to the same as the parent as the main footer.
So five REM and then let's do a line items.
We want to align items to the center.
Now we want to take care of the icons.
So let's see, the icons are still inside footer content so we can stay within here and we'll say dot
social.
And then I want to style the icons with which I'll have a class of fab.
So I'm going to give them a margin.
Right, just to separate them a little bit of one REM.
Let's do a border.
I'll do border two pixels, white and solid, and let's do a border radius because we want them to be
circular radius of 50% and let's do a height, height, width and line height of 20 pixels.
Okay.
And then let's do a text align center
and let's do a little bit of padding.
So we'll do 0.5 REM.
Now, when we hover them, we want the main color.
So within this social fab class, we're just going to do ampersand, colon, hover, and just set the
background to the main color.
All right.
And that's it.
So let's save that and go back and you can see our folder looks pretty good.
We have the hover effect on the icons.
Now, the last thing I want to do is I want to use the set text color function that we created in in
the last section, because I think that will be helpful if we want to change the main color or dot color
or any background color at all.
So let's go into we're going to put this in our config with our variables.
So this config is usually where I would put any variables, mix ins functions, things like that.
So let's just say set text color and let's do at function and we want to call this set text color and
it's going to take in a color which is going to be basically the background color.
And then we're going to do a simple condition.
So we'll do if and we're going to test the lightness.
So we'll say if the lightness of the color that's passed in is greater than 50, then we want to return
the color of black.
Actually, we need we need to add a symbol here.
And then we're going to do an else.
LS.
Then we want to return a white color.
And if you want to change up the colors, that's fine.
Just can you use black and white?
So we'll save that.
And let's see whether I actually want to implement this.
Let's go to here.
Let's see.
So basically, wherever we have a background color, we can implement this.
So let's see.
Um, so the divorce background color.
No, we don't need to do it.
Actually, I don't know if there's.
I don't know if we actually need to put this anywhere just yet.
Um.
So right here, the actually for the icon, we should probably do that.
Let me take a look here.
So here, if we wanted to change these icons to have a light background, then we would want the icons
themselves to be dark.
So we should implement it here.
So instead of just white, let's do set dash text, dash color and let's pass in dark color.
Okay, we'll save that and we should get the same result.
However, if we were to change both of these to light, then the text should change.
Doc or the icon.
Yep.
There we go.
Good.
I'm just going to change those back.
And then we should probably do do the same thing with with the step.
So let's add right below it a color and let's set that to set text color and pass in the main color
and we'll take a look.
Good.
So if we were to to make the background light on that.
Let's change both of these to light.
So now just the step should be light, but it should have a dark.
There we go.
It has a dark text.
Oh, we probably want to do it to the hover too, as you can see now, you can't see the number.
So on the hover right here, let's also add color set.
Text color.
Dark color, and that will decide and it will make it light.
So let's just try that out.
So now when I hover it, you'll see that it turns light.
Good.
So let's change the main color.
Back to main for the step here.
So the stew main color.
Wait, was it mean or was it dark?
No, it was dark.
No, it was me.
Sorry.
All right, there we go.
And if you find other places where you want to use that function, you can do that as well.
All right.
So I think that that's it for this video and that's it for the the home page as far as aside from making
it responsive.
So in the next video, we're going to start on the about page.